When the language 
underneath our 
words starts to fold or
rot, we get 
meaning compost. The peels,
 fabrications,
     and seeds
of hypothesis that we discard 
break 
down into microcosmic games, elastic combinations of 
waves.

None of the unconscious we spit out when we speak 
ever disappears. 
Autonomos products and particles of the mind follow

like water, and sunlight, and every other fruit of the Earth
a cycle.

Earthworms will come to reclaim every sentence,
 fungi will grow over everything our senses touch. 

--
Lines on the land, butcher marks
on a live animal. 

Earthquakes are nothing 
for sugarcane ghosts. 

They sit still through them
and write conjurations. 

Drops of water slide
down windows, leaves respond
to the wind with a switch 
in point of view. 

It’s futile to try making 
definitions from scratch. 

But harvesting flowers 
is still plausible—we’ve planted riddles 
like seeds. 

Compassion stone, don’t emigrate.
A purificatory bath will serve as explanation.

Money may stops herbs from 
walking up and down the continent like animals
but not from the pursuit of
breaking through concrete sulfur sidewalks, bursting 
open empty treasure homes. 

Copper children are casting dreams.

--
Arousing the discovery of vanity, they desire everybody.

Who are they? Never been to the region where the wind sprouts, wasps caress them as they walk about the country.

Did they sit in front of the TV, mindless, stringing thoughts for a crow, kissing knives, feeling superstitious of frogs, of dresses, of eggs, of fluids? 

The transition was vulnerability and softness, submission to the eroticization of effeminate mannerisms, a swallowing of the generosity of strangers. To speak of envy of the artifact of hormones, or to fixate on surgeries, would be a perverse objectification. 

They will miss the lesbian propositioning, the cisgender avoidance, the occassional pleasurable disgust at physiology. 

They were there not for the catcalling, or the delighting in pornographic gendered passivity, but for the erotic drive of intersex piloerection, masturbating to the tension of connection, undressing while thinking of earlobe osmolality, and touch. 

They came back translated, sided with potatoes, peppers, and other independent thinkers and sorters, uprooting the death warning that sucks the crickets out of our blood.

--
There’s a new theory of paranoia: To please is to seduce a neurosis, to touch your own cranium sponge, to measure the distance to your olfactory stria. At six in the morning your pupils are nothing but undulating patterns of dust. You might, if you reach out to recontextualize them, accidentally project your oculomotor nerve.  

It reads like a debate from the sixties—commitment to the ludicrous paradox of humor, to the guts viciously pressured by the ink of a tattoo, to the castration anxiety and its redemption by a dominatrix. 

It isn’t ontology, just an incubator for existential thoughts on the sociocultural structure of consciousness. Something to mitigate the desires of the quintessentially moody kernel of truth we loan as performance.

It goes against all sublimated chauvinistic grumbling on how biological extinction will unleash a garish psychic operation, or how homemaking isn’t but a selfish tick. 

Yet, I would never fix the chief line as indicated in the diagram. Or move the body to one side. The scars on trees grow whether or not they are made of cells. 

--
There is so much planet we manage to grow in all directions and still have plenty of everywhere around us, bottomless vanishing points to be alone in, to remember there are folds between us and the other images that grow. 

Yet, ingenuity brought us to an oak sapling. 

We started with one drop and turned into an ocean. 

The moon found us pouring scalding water through an incision 
in the intestinal membrane. 

Where before a kindly constellation
an abandoned planet with miscellany habits
now nothing but a carcass—arteries haphazardly parboiled. 

Nearby insects wore a veil of skin and ashes, the 
unwanted entrails and fibers left there 
like an abandoned house. Perhaps 
the animal should have migrated to another planet, one 
where the atmosphere helps one believe 
with conviction in mold, and in sage, and in death. Not this one
where signs make everything scientific seem unfruitful, where 
reason and evidence, and funerals and dirt could mean 
nothing to them. 

(For dinner a chopped cabbage, a silk corn in a crock, and a flat flint rock.)

Even the tonsils they took. Made a mystery moonshine
milk splattering, swallowed mustard and relish
coals sprinkled with mushy sulfur
blinking.

