When the language underneath our words starts to rot, we get meaning compost. The peels, shells, and seeds of thought that we discard break down into phosphate-rich combinations of sounds that encode objective, though not “true”, accounts of mental processes. Contrary to the common belief, none of the unconscious we spit out when we speak ever disappears. There’s a complex cycle that products of the mind follow—like water and sunlight, and every other fruit of the Earth. Earthworms come to reclaim every sentence we utter, fungi grow over everything our senses touch.
--
Spell to be spoken: If you drew up
lines on the land like a butcher
on a live animal, behold your form
being erased. Bring something new
into this heavy sphere, you who don’t
believe it is futile to try making
anything from scratch. Look
at the drops of water sliding
down the window, the ships
that sail across the ocean, the yellow
leaves responding to the wind with
a switch in point of view. Stop
them all if you can. Stop plants from
walking up and down the continent, and
breaking through concrete sidewalks, bursting
open empty homes.
--
Who are we? Hungry beetles who have never been to the region where the wind sprouts? Apple variations who feel the wasps caress us as we walk about the country? Did we sit in front of the TV, mindless, stringing thoughts for a crow? Kissing knives, feeling superstitious of frogs, of dresses, of eggs, of fluids? Or did we go off thinking we knew ourselves and came back translated? Are we working yet on telling hogs a fortune? Collaborating with fellow lumps of glass to cook a dish better than what we’ve been getting? Siding with potatoes, peppers, and other independent thinkers and sorters? Will we uproot the death warning that sucks the crickets out of our blood? And inhabit the lake again, befriend the birds, harvest the salt, place an onion under our beds?
--
There is so much planet we manage to grow in all directions and still have plenty of everywhere around us, bottomless vanishing points to be alone in, to remember there are folds between us and the other images that grow. From bodies we know luminous find the unknown. To start with one drop and turn into an ocean.
